---
slides: example
url_pdf: ""
summary: An example of using the in-built project page.
url_video: ""
date: 2016-04-27T00:00:00Z
external_link: https://www.makarenko.co/project/hyplex/
url_slides: ""
title: "Hyplex: A real-rime hyperspectral imaging via trained metasurface encoders"
tags:
  - Deep Learning
links:
  - icon: twitter
    icon_pack: fab
    name: Follow
    url: https://twitter.com/georgecushen
image:
  caption: Hyplex™ imaging system
  focal_point: Smart
  preview_only: false
  filename: concep-v3-01.jpg
url_code: ""
---
We present the Hyplex system (Fig. 1), a
data-driven hyperspectral imaging camera (a-b), which uses
state-of-the-art metasurfaces to replace macroscopic components with highly
integrated dielectric nanoresonators that manipulate light as a feed-forward
neural network. Metasurfaces have
successfully demonstrated the ability to integrate various basic optical
components for different
applications. 

![Example of metasurface pixel arrays (blue squares). (b) Schematic of meta-pixel array on top of a camera sensor. (c) Closeup showing the metasurface projectors as subpixels of the array. (d) Scanning electron microscope image of a fabricated metasurface pixel. (e) Optical micrograph of the metasurface pixel array. (f) Illustration of the barcode generated by (e](concep-v3-01.jpg "Figure 1. Hardware implemented Hyplex™ imaging system.")

Hyplex leverages this technology to compress high-dimensional spectral data into a
low-dimensional space via suitably defined projectors (c-d),
designed with end-to-end learning of large hyperspectral datasets.
ALFRED, an open-source, inverse-design software exploiting artificial intelligence (AI), provides the
means to design the metasurface projectors. These nanostructures encode
broadband information carried by incoming spectra into a barcode composed of a
discrete pattern of intensity signals (e-f). A physical
model-aware framework finds the optimal projectors' response with various
learning schemes, designed based on user end tasks.